question 2, part a

i) nothing to report

ii) What language does First accept?
Strings that start with one 0 and end in 111, and have any number of 0s or 1s in between them. 0 and 1 are quoted because they are strings (characters)

iii) 5 states, 9 arcs

part b

i) yes, nothing to report

ii) yes, they must be equivalent. Disagreements.fst has 0 states and 0 arcs, so it accepts nothing. This means there are no strings that are in (First - Second) or (Second - First), so they are equivalent.


part c

i) First has 20 states and 25 arcs; Second has 13 states and 18 arcs

ii) Since the unoptimized FSTs for First and Second are actually represented differently, the union of the two has to be constructed by branching from start to (First - Second) and start to (Second - First). That is, it is not the case that (First - Second) is equivalent to (Second - First), so Disagreements must have branching.

iii) trick question? the results seem the same. It's not optimized but it's still the same regular expression. So while it uses many more states/arcs than it needs to, it still will "accept" the same strings as before.

part d

If we optimize Disagreements without first optimizing First and Second, we again get an FST with 0 states and 0 arcs. So it must be that the optimization realizes that each branch in the unoptimized version does not accept any string.

question 4, part a

input language = "a" ("b"* | "c"+) "a"

part b

"abca" is mapped to 0 outputs, it is not a possible input string

"aba" is mapped to 1 output. More generally, "a" "b"* "a" is mapped to 1 output.

"aa" is mapped to 2 output, "africa" and "aa". This is because we can either use the "":"fric" rule or the "b":"x" rule, since we have 0 or more "b"s, so we produce 0 "x"s.

"aca" is mapped to more than 2 outputs. More generally, "a" "c"+ "a" is mapped to more than 2 outputs.

part c

Don't have to hand in anything for this, but should think about it: how would you describe the Cross relation in English?

part d

Yes, it is consistent with our answers above. It has 10 states and 16 arcs.
